We'll come back and this year we are going to have a look at you.
Elements and in particular we're going to have a look at text.
So I've created a new project called Pong basics.
And in here I want to create a UI element.
So in the hierarchy of you I make a I do right click and then I go to UI.
I have multiple options here.
I have text image raw image button and so forth.
For now I'm just going to use text and as you can see the new text appears on our screen here at the
bottom left.
So if we zoom out to the right position we will see this is where our text currently is.
It's at the bottom left.
So this is the render mode that we have for our canvas which is greenspace overlay.
So what that does it will overlay whatever we assign to the UI layer or to the UI space here.
On top of our game mode or game view itself.
So now no matter what we have in there as a game object so lets say we add a 3D cube and position it
had a 0 0 0.
This is where it is.
And as you can see it somewhere around here.
So the game mode itself is very tiny in comparison to this huge screen that is heartens to each layer
which is where you I layer are canvas which is put on top of.
So thats what the screen space overlay does.
There are other options for X for example screen space camera.
What that will do is you need to give it a camera here run that camera and it will take a different
approach.
So now it's based on where the camera currently is and you have a certain canvas in between the camera
and to play mode.
And it's it's almost like a layer on top but it's still a slightly different approach.
And then you have Worldspace where you can assign a specific width and height for your canvas and you
can do some additional layer changing and so forth.
We will use different render modes throughout the course so no worries there we will see those in detail
in the next videos or in the next chapters.
I just wanted to quickly show you the different modes now within the canvas.
We have the text and at the same time we also have created an event system.
So whenever we create a UI and we didn't have a UI them and before our canvas and even system are created
for us directly automatically and I created the text as you can see it's a child of our canvas.
So it's inside of our canvas folder.
And now we can go ahead and change the text for example so we had new text.
Let's change that to a plain zero.
And as you can see we can barely see that zero.
So let's change the font size to let's say 50.
Now you might say oh damn where did it go I can't see it anymore.
That has to do with the fact that the height and width don't fit with the font size anymore more so
our text element itself or text UI element has a height of only 30.
So only if I increase it to 4 for example 60 I will be able to see my number again on my text again.
Now let's go back to 13 and say I still want to keep it at 30 but I still want to see my 0.
So how can I solved otherwise.
What you can do is you can use overflow.
So horizontal overflow and vertical overflow will do so.
That as you can see your number will still appear.
Now however it's cut off.
So how do I move my 0.
Well you can move it from here.
So let's zoom out to the point where we can actually see something.
So you can move it around here as you can see with our transform editor here or with our transform tool.
Now you can drag it around and you can see where it is.
Another way to change the position of something is of course to change directions from here directly.
So you can add values here so you could say 0 0 is the right position for you.
Now the 0 is not in the center.
Why is that.
Well that's because the alignment of our text here is not centered.
So you can align it centrally in both directions and then we'll be perfectly centered and you can still
change that by changing the anchor.
So here for example now it's an anchor preset to the center.
You could anchor it to the top left.
So now it is anchored to the top left.
As you see nothing has changed except for the post Y and oppose X..
So those two values have not changed.
So if we bring those back to 0 and 0 you can see that our zero goes back or goes perfectly to the edge
of our top left corner.
Now of course we would want to move it a little bit so that we still see the zero.
So let's move into our game now.
Black might be that might not be the right color for you if you want to change that.
You can go to the color property here and change the color to for example red or white or green or whatever
you like.
All right.
So let's take this pink because it fits into the blue we can see it very well.
And then what you can do is of course change line spacing so let's say you have a second line in here.
Then you can change the line spacing so let's say you want to have a bigger distance between lines.
So that's the line spacing one is totally fine.
And finally of course you can change the font any time.
So the standard is Israel and around no further fonts by default you can download fonts either from
the store or you can import them from wherever you downloaded them for example.
So you download them to your machine and then you can import it from there but be careful that you don't
download fonts that you don't own because some phones actually cost money.
Most of the don't.
So just search for free fonts or royalty free fonts and then use those.
All right.
So that's about the font and the text.
And now let's have a look at how we can change that number programmatically in the next video.